20_1 datagrid docissues: calculateGroupValue, calculateSortValue, sortOrder (#1714)
DevExpress/devextreme-documentation: api-reference/_hidden/dxDataGridColumn/calculateGroupValue.md

---
---
##### shortDescription
Sets custom column values used to group grid records.

##### param(rowData): Object

> The current row's data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Current row data.
```

The calculated value used to create and sort groups.

---

> This property accepts the name of the data source field that provides these values...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This property accepts the name of the data source field that provides values by which to group grid records...
```

    {
        dataField: "Country",
        groupIndex: 0,
        calculateGroupValue: "groupDataField"
    }

> ... or a function that calculates them:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
... or a function that creates custom groups:
```

    // groups records by date

>     calculateGroupValue: function(rowData){

Reviewer 2: Both the code snippets should be divided by platforms. And since we are editing the calculateSortValue topic, it would be great to add Vue and React samples to it as well.

>         const convertDateToString = date => {

Reviewer 2: Get someone from developers to check the code.

The calculated value used to create and sort groups.

---
This property accepts the name of the data source field that provides values by which to group grid records...

---
##### jQuery

    <!--JavaScript-->$(function() {
        $("#{widgetName}Container").dx{WidgetName}({
            columns: [{
                    dataField: "ColumnValues",
                    groupIndex: 0,
                    calculateGroupValue: "GroupingValues"

>                 }]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            columns: [{
                dataField: "ColumnValues",
                groupIndex: 0,
                calculateGroupValue: "GroupingValues"
            }]
```

    // ...
    export class AppComponent {
        // ...
    }
    @NgModule({
        imports: [
            // ...
            Dx{WidgetName}Module
        ],
        // ...
    })
    

##### Vue

    <!-- tab: App.vue -->
    <template>
        <DxDataGrid ... >
            <DxColumn
                data-field="ColumnValues"
                :group-index="0"
                calculate-group-value="GroupingValues" 
            />
        </DxDataGrid>
    </template>
    <script>
    import { DxDataGrid, DxColumn } from 'devextreme-vue/data-grid';

    export default {
        components: {
            DxDataGrid,
            DxColumn
        },
        // ...
    }
    </script>

##### React

    <!-- tab: App.js -->
    import React from 'react';
    import DataGrid, { Column } from 'devextreme-react/data-grid';

    function App() {
        // ...
        return (
            <DataGrid ...>
                <Column
                    dataField="ColumnValues"
                    groupIndex={0}
                    calculateGroupValue="GroupingValues" 
                />
            </DataGrid>
        );
    }

    export default App();

---

> ... or a function that creates custom groups:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
... or a function that creates custom groups. In the code below, **calculateGroupValue** creates groups like Today, Yesterday, and Earlier:
```

Author: The groups are not like Today, Yesterday, and Earlier. They are Today, Yesterday, and Earlier. So "In the code below, **calculateGroupValue** creates 'Today', 'Yesterday', and 'Earlier' groups:"?

Reviewer 2: The `switch` code has a comment that indicates omission:

```
// ...
```

This means that there are more groups. My correction stands.

---
##### jQuery

    <!--JavaScript-->
    const convertDateToString = date => {
        return date.toISOString().split('T')[0].replaceAll('-', '/');

>     };

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    }
```

                        yesterdayDate.setDate(yesterdayDate.getDate() - 1);

                        const today = convertDateToString(new Date());
                        const yesterday = convertDateToString(yesterdayDate);

                        switch (date) {
                            case today:
                                return "Today";
                            case yesterday:
                                return "Yesterday";
                            // ...
                            default:
                                return "Earlier";
                        }      
                    }
                }
            ]
        });
    });

##### Angular
    
    <!--HTML-->
    <dx-{widget-name} ... >
        <!-- ... -->
        <dxi-column
            dataField="HireDate"
            [groupIndex]="0"
            [calculateGroupValue]="groupByDate"
            dataType="date">
        </dxi-column>
    </dx-{widget-name}>

    <!--TypeScript-->
    import { Dx{WidgetName}Module } from "devextreme-angular";
    // ...

    const convertDateToString = (date) => {
        return date.toISOString().split("T")[0].replaceAll("-", "/");

>     };

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    }
```

            const date = rowData.HireDate;
            const yesterdayDate = new Date();
            yesterdayDate.setDate(yesterdayDate.getDate() - 1);

            const today = convertDateToString(new Date());
            const yesterday = convertDateToString(yesterdayDate);

            switch (date) {
                case today:
                    return "Today";
                case yesterday:
                    return "Yesterday";
                // ...
                default:
                    return "Earlier";
            }
        }
    }
    @NgModule({
        imports: [
            // ...
            Dx{WidgetName}Module
        ],
        // ...
    })
    

##### Vue

    <!-- tab: App.vue -->
    <template>
        <DxDataGrid ... >
            <DxColumn
                data-field="HireDate"
                data-type="date"
                :group-index="0"
                :calculate-group-value="groupByDate"
            />
        </DxDataGrid>
    </template>
    <script>
    import { DxDataGrid, DxColumn } from 'devextreme-vue/data-grid';

    const convertDateToString = (date) => {
        return date.toISOString().split("T")[0].replaceAll("-", "/");

>     };

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    }
```

    export default {
        components: {
            DxDataGrid,
            DxColumn
        },
        methods: {
            groupByDate(rowData) {               
                const date = rowData.HireDate;
                const yesterdayDate = new Date();
                yesterdayDate.setDate(yesterdayDate.getDate() - 1);

                const today = convertDateToString(new Date());
                const yesterday = convertDateToString(yesterdayDate);

                switch (date) {
                    case today:
                        return "Today";
                    case yesterday:
                        return "Yesterday";
                    // ...
                    default:
                        return "Earlier";
                }
            }
        }
        // ...
    }
    </script>

##### React

    <!-- tab: App.js -->
    import React from 'react';
    import DataGrid, { Column } from 'devextreme-react/data-grid';

    const convertDateToString = (date) => {
        return date.toISOString().split("T")[0].replaceAll("-", "/");

>     };

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    }
```

The calculated value used to create and sort groups.

---

> This property accepts the name of the data source field that provides values by which to group grid records...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This property accepts the name of the data source field that provides values used to group grid records...
```

                :group-index="0"
                calculate-group-value="GroupingValues" 
            />
        </DxDataGrid>
    </template>
    <script>
    import { DxDataGrid, DxColumn } from 'devextreme-vue/data-grid';

    export default {
        components: {
            DxDataGrid,
            DxColumn
        },
        // ...
    }
    </script>

##### React

    <!-- tab: App.js -->
    import React from 'react';
    import DataGrid, { Column } from 'devextreme-react/data-grid';

    function App() {
        // ...
        return (
            <DataGrid ...>
                <Column
                    dataField="ColumnValues"
                    groupIndex={0}
                    calculateGroupValue="GroupingValues" 
                />
            </DataGrid>
        );
    }

    export default App();

---

... or a function that creates custom groups:

---
##### jQuery

    <!--JavaScript-->
    const convertDateToString = date => {
        return date.toISOString().split('T')[0].replaceAll('-', '/');
    }

    $(function() {
        $("#{widgetName}Container").dx{WidgetName}({
            columns: [
                // ...
                {

>                     dataField: "HireDate",

Reviewer 3: I suppose "CreatedOn" is more common and viable.

                    dataType: "date",
                    groupIndex: 0,
                    calculateGroupValue: function(rowData){       
                        const date = rowData.HireDate;
                        const yesterdayDate = new Date();
                        yesterdayDate.setDate(yesterdayDate.getDate() - 1);

                        const today = convertDateToString(new Date());
                        const yesterday = convertDateToString(yesterdayDate);

>                         switch (date) {

Reviewer 3: It's not clear the format of HireDate? Is It string? convertDateToString is strange for me. Why do you convert a date to a string?

The calculated value used to create and sort groups.

---
This property accepts the name of the data source field that provides values by which to group grid records...

---
##### jQuery

    <!--JavaScript-->$(function() {
        $("#{widgetName}Container").dx{WidgetName}({
            columns: [
                {

>                     dataField: "Country",

Reviewer 2: Add comments similar to those in the `calculateSortValue` example.

                    groupIndex: 0,

>                     calculateGroupValue: "groupDataField"

Reviewer 2: Can we come up with a more real-life setting?

                },

>                 "groupDataField"

Reviewer 2: You don't have to declare a field used in `calculateGroupValue` as a column.

            [groupIndex]="0"
            calculateGroupValue="groupDataField">
        </dxi-column>
        <dxi-column
            dataField="groupDataField"
        </dxi-column>
    </dx-{widget-name}>

    <!--TypeScript-->
    import { Dx{WidgetName}Module } from "devextreme-angular";
    // ...
    export class AppComponent {
        // ...
    }
    @NgModule({
        imports: [
            // ...
            Dx{WidgetName}Module
        ],
        // ...
    })
    

##### Vue

    <!-- tab: App.vue -->
    <template>
        <DxDataGrid ... >
            <DxColumn
                data-field="Position"
                :group-index="0"
                calculate-group-value="groupDataField"
            />
            <DxColumn
                data-field="groupDataField"
            />
        </DxDataGrid>
    </template>
    <script>
    import { DxDataGrid, DxColumn } from 'devextreme-vue/data-grid';

    export default {
        components: {
            DxDataGrid,
            DxColumn
        },
        // ...
    }
    </script>

##### React

    <!-- tab: App.js -->
    import React from 'react';
    import DataGrid, { Column } from 'devextreme-react/data-grid';

>     const GroupCell = options => <div>{options.value}</div>;
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    function App() {
        // ...
        return (
            <DataGrid ...>
                <Column
                    dataField="Position"
                    groupIndex={0}
                    calculateGroupValue="groupDataField"
                />
                <Column
                    dataField="groupDataField"
                />
            </DataGrid>
        );
    }

    export default App();

---

... or a function that creates custom groups:

---
##### jQuery

    <!--JavaScript-->$(function() {
        $("#{widgetName}Container").dx{WidgetName}({
            columns: [
                // ...
                {
                    dataField: "HireDate",
                    dataType: "date",
                    groupIndex: 0,
                    calculateGroupValue: function(rowData){

>                         const convertDateToString = date => {

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this function be declared outside?

Author: No, although it can. It will be placed before the DataGrid container and this looks worse than the current version.

                            return date.toISOString().split('T')[0].replaceAll('-', '/');
                        };

                        const date = rowData.HireDate;
                        const yesterdayDate = new Date();
                        yesterdayDate.setDate(yesterdayDate.getDate() - 1);

                        const today = convertDateToString(new Date());
                        const yesterday = convertDateToString(yesterdayDate);

                        if(date === today) {
                            return "Today";
                        }
                        if(date === yesterday) {
                            return "Yesterday";

>                         }

Reviewer 2: Maybe use a `switch`?

                        //...

>                         return "Older";

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                        return "Earlier";
```

            }
        }
        // ...
    }
    </script>

##### React

    <!-- tab: App.js -->
    import React from 'react';
    import DataGrid, { Column } from 'devextreme-react/data-grid';

    const groupByDate = (rowData) => {
        const convertDateToString = (date) => {
            return date.toISOString().split("T")[0].replaceAll("-", "/");
        };

        const date = rowData.HireDate;
        const yesterdayDate = new Date();
        yesterdayDate.setDate(yesterdayDate.getDate() - 1);

        const today = convertDateToString(new Date());
        const yesterday = convertDateToString(yesterdayDate);

        if (date === today) {
            return "Today";
        }
        if (date === yesterday) {
            return "Yesterday";
        }
        //...
        return "Older";
    };

    function App() {
        // ...
        return (
            <DataGrid ...>
                <Column
                    dataField="HireDate"
                    dataType="date"
                    groupIndex={0}
                    calculateGroupValue={groupByDate}
                />
            </DataGrid>
        );
    }

    export default App;

---

> Group captions and appearance can be customized. To do this, define the [groupCellTemplate](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/columns/#groupCellTemplate) ([groupCellRender](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/columns/#groupCellRender) in React). Refer to the following GitHub repository for an example: <a href="https://github.com/DevExpress-Examples/DataGrid---How-to-apply-custom-sorting-to-a-grouped-column" target="_blank">DataGrid - How to apply custom sorting to a grouped column</a>.

Reviewer 2: For now, we don't make a distinction between React and other frameworks when it comes to template properties. When we do, we will update all texts at once.

```suggestion
Group captions and appearance can be customized. To do this, define the [groupCellTemplate](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/columns/#groupCellTemplate). Refer to the following GitHub repository for an example: <a href="https://github.com/DevExpress-Examples/DataGrid---How-to-apply-custom-sorting-to-a-grouped-column" target="_blank">DataGrid - How to apply custom sorting to a grouped column</a>.
```

    <!-- tab: App.vue -->
    <template>
        <DxDataGrid ... >
            <DxColumn
                data-field="ColumnValues"
                :group-index="0"
                calculate-group-value="GroupingValues" 
            />
        </DxDataGrid>
    </template>
    <script>
    import { DxDataGrid, DxColumn } from 'devextreme-vue/data-grid';

    export default {
        components: {
            DxDataGrid,
            DxColumn
        },
        // ...
    }
    </script>

##### React

    <!-- tab: App.js -->
    import React from 'react';
    import DataGrid, { Column } from 'devextreme-react/data-grid';

    function App() {
        // ...
        return (
            <DataGrid ...>
                <Column
                    dataField="ColumnValues"
                    groupIndex={0}
                    calculateGroupValue="GroupingValues" 
                />
            </DataGrid>
        );
    }

    export default App();

---

... or a function that creates custom groups. In the code below, **calculateGroupValue** creates groups like Today, Yesterday, and Earlier:

---
##### jQuery

    <!--JavaScript-->
    const getDayDifference = (date1, date2) => {

>         let timeDiff =Math.abs(date1.getTime() - date2.getTime());

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        const timeDiff = Math.abs(date1.getTime() - date2.getTime());
```

        return Math.ceil(timeDiff / (1000 * 3600 * 24));  
    }

    $(function() {
        $("#dataGridContainer").dxDataGrid({
            columns: [
                // ...
                {
                    dataField: "HireDate",
                    dataType: "date",
                    groupIndex: 0,
                    calculateGroupValue: function(rowData) {       
                        const currentHireDate = rowData.HireDate;
                        const today = new Date();
                        today.setHours(0,0,0,0);

                        const dayDifference = getDayDifference(today, currentHireDate);

>                         switch (dayDifference) {
>                             case 0:
>                             return "Today";
>                             break;
>                         case 1:
>                             return "Yesterday";
>                             break; 
>                             // ...
>                         default:
>                             return "Earlier";
>                         };    

Reviewer 2: If you use `return`, you don't need a `break`. Also, we can make the statement more compact.

```suggestion
                        switch (dayDifference) {
                            case 0: return "Today";
                            case 1: return "Yesterday";
                            // ...
                            default: return "Earlier";
                        }
```

                    }
                }
            ]
        });
    });

##### Angular
    
    <!-- tab: app.component.html -->
    <dx-data-grid ... >
        <!-- ... -->
        <dxi-column
            dataField="HireDate"
            [groupIndex]="0"
            [calculateGroupValue]="groupByDate"
            dataType="date">
        </dxi-column>
    </dx-data-grid>

    <!-- tab: app.component.ts -->

>     import { DxDataGridModule } from "devextreme-angular";
>     // ...
> 

Reviewer 2: The module is imported in app.module.ts

```suggestion
```

---

The following example shows how to group data by date relative to the current date:

    calculateGroupValue: function(rowData){
        let date = new Date(rowData.DateColumn);
        if(date = isTodayDate()){
            return "Today";
        }
        if(date = isYesterdayDate()){
            return "Yesterday";
        }
        //...
        return "Older";
    }

> The **DataGrid** groups its rows by the grouping column. If you want to use custom grouping, change values of this column in the **calculateGroupValue** function. As a result, group cells' headers will display the changed values that may include extra information. To remove it, specify a custom template in the [groupCellTemplate](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/columns/#groupCellTemplate) property ([groupCellRender](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/columns/#groupCellRender) in React). Refer to this <a href="https://github.com/DevExpress-Examples/DataGrid---How-to-apply-custom-sorting-to-a-grouped-column" target="_blank">Github repository</a> for implementation.

Reviewer 2: There are many things wrong with this topic. Short description is overloaded, full description lacks structure, the example doesn't target different frameworks and doesn't even work in jQuery. Let's rework everything and keep it simple.

Short description:
Calculates custom values used to group this column.

Full description (we will follow the structure of the calculateSortValue description):

This property accepts the name of the data source field that provides values by which to group this column...

%code_example%

... or a function that creates custom groups:

%code_example%

Group captions and appearance can be customized. To do this, define the [groupCellTemplate]. Refer to the following GitHub repository for an example: %url%

**calculateGroupValue** is also used to sort groups when the column is grouped.
